Hello and welcome to this new tutorial now we're going to make that method that creates the model architecture
itself and also the method that will integrate the training operations.
So let's do this you already know the name of that method because we already covered.
Actually it's exactly this method so I'm going to copy this because in order to introduce a method here
we need to start with death to define the method and then just give the name of the method which will
be build graph.
However inside we have to specify the argument self because we're going to use Of course the variables
of our object and no other argument is needed here.
And therefore we are already ready to start implementing the bill graft method and the first thing we're
going to do before you know making the whole architecture of the convolutional variational our encoder
is to initiate the graph because the E will be constructed as a tensor flow graph and therefore now
what we're about to do is create an object of the graph class by tenths of love.
So that are the amoral gets done McGruff advanced structure which will be super useful when it is time
to train the Wii.
All right.
Diamond graphs are a great innovation in the AI platforms.
You also have them in by torch.
And basically they allow faster computations of the Graylands and more specifically the gradients of
composition functions in the training computation.
So that's a must do we have to start here by creating this graph and therefore I'm introducing a new
object variable which will be self-taught.
G so g will be the graph itself and to create this graph as we've just said we're going to create it
as an object of the graph class by sense of focus.
I'm calling it sense of flow and Frampton's of flow and calling the graph class.
Here it is.
And we just need add some parentheses because this is indeed a class.
All right and no argument is needed in the class.
You have your graph ready it's basically initialized.
And later on it will be used inside the tens of flow sessions that will run for either the inference
or the training.
All right.
So here we go we have our graph.
That was the first step.
And now the second step is to specify that we want to have the whole architecture of the V.A. model
that we're about to build inside the graph and therefore in order to specify that we're going to integrate
indeed this architecture inside the graph we have to start with with here and set the graph which we
called self g as default.
Right.
The first one here then let's not forget some parenthesis and then Gullane And then as you can see when
you press enter We are inside this graph set as default.
Right that's where we're going to build the whole architecture of the V8 emo.
You know inside this graph and so here we go where you start.
And so now what we're going to do is go back to the appendix section of the world knows article written
by the original authors.
Because indeed as we saw and bruised toils it contains the fool architecture the exact same one as the
one we're about to build.
And what we're going to do is simply follow this architecture from the top to the bottom because then
we have to start here with the input images and we're simply going to follow the architecture with the
same numbers here of importance or meaning future maps here and elements in the latent vector and then
input sensors into the convolutions.
So let's start with the very top.
The first step here which is to get the input image with the following dimensions 64 by 64 by three
and 64 by 64 are basically the height and the width of the images.
There are going to be squares of 64 pixels.
All right so that's the first thing we're going to do here.
And the way we're going to do this is by first introducing a variable that we're going to call X and
which of course will be a variable of the object.
And this ex-boy will will be exactly the input images of 64 by 64 by three dimensions.
And so we're going to create them inside a tensor placeholder that's usually the way we do things when
dealing with images.
Because this densify a placeholder will create the right format for these input images with the right
dimensions.
And the way we're going to do this is my first of course going tends to flow has a shot at T.F. then
Frampton's of all we're going to go as we've just mentioned the place holder function inside which we
are giving input its arguments and the first one is did type meaning the type of the elements that you
all have in the cells of the arrays which are of course going to be the pixels of the images.
And of course since we're going to normalize pixels which originally are between 0 and 255 but after
normalization there will be basically float.
So we have to specify the type of the cells as floats.
And the way we do that with sense of flow is by common sense of flow and from tense flow we get the
float 32 type.
All right.
So that was for the first argument and then I don't know if you saw but the second argument is actually
the shape of the images.
And as we saw well we can see that again the shape of the images are going to be exactly 64 by 64 by
three.
All right.
And that's exactly what we have to specify in the second argument here in brackets inside which we have
to input four elements.
The first one is the diamond ssion of the batch in case we want to specify that we want our placeholder
holding the input images inside batches already.
But no we won't get them into some batches yet.
That's not right now that we do this we we'll do that later.
And therefore we will specify none as first element.
And then of course the three other elements are the diamond sions of the images.
And therefore as we've just seen they are 64 for the first one sixty fourth for the second one and three
because we are working with RGV colored images as opposed to black and white images in which case the
diamonds we have been here one.
All right here we go.
We took care of the input images meaning we took care of the first step here in input image sixty four
by sixty four by three.
And now we're going to tackle the first part of the V8 the meaning the point where we build the encoder
right.
You have to understand that we're going to build this convolutional the IMO in three main parts.
The first part is going to be the encoder that's the encoder you know encoding the input images into
the latent vector.
And speaking of the late invective that's actually the second part of the implementation of the V and
then the third part which is of course the decoder.
Right here we are decoding the latent vector Z to reconstruct the final output that is the final output
images which are going to be the representation of the environment inside the dream.
So of course I'm going to structure our code now in these three parts starting with the first one which
will be building the encoded part of the the variational are encoded.
And so now here we go let's build exactly the same architecture as we see here starting with the first
convolution.
I really do.
Convolution meaning it's going to be a convolutional layer of 32 times for feature maps with a realm
meaning rectifier activation function.
And this is exactly what we're about Intiman right now.
You'll see that we will only add one additional info that is not here which will be destroyed but this
trial you will see is most of the time too.
That's why they didn't specify it here.
All right let's do this.
It's actually very easy with tons of flow.
We're going to call our successive layers of the encoder and also the decoder by the way H because there
are like hidden layers.
Here we go H.
And so now to create these convolutional layers Well you might guess that the first natural step is
to call tens of flow and then from Frampton's of flow we're going to get a first module which is very
easy to remember because indeed right now we are creating some convolutional layers and therefore layers.
That's the model that tends to flow.
And inside these layers Mudgal we're going to get the come to the function.
And so here we go we can see very well the arguments of the come to the function but I've prepared in
the resources.
Another one which is not as important as the ones I've given you but pretty useful of what we're about
to do right now.
It's the T.F. players come from that sense of flow documentation.
So how did I get that.
I basically just typed layers to the sense sensor on Google and I directed got it right.
That's how you can get easily and fast the information.
And so this is useful because indeed you get all the detailed informations about the arguments of this
comes to the function we are about to use to build our first convolutional layer.
And so let's input these arguments one by one.
The first one is inputs and that of course is going to be our input images which we created here so
we can just copy this and enter this as the first input to come to the function.
Then let's see the next argument is going to be the number of filters or the number of feature maps.
That's the same thing right as you can see them or filters in the convolution as you saw in the intuition
Nectars as now.
Question is how many fields is that we want right now.
Well the answer is in the architecture provided in Oracle and that is 32 32 feature maps or filters.
All right let's do this let's implement that 32 filters.
And now next argument you can see how all this is pretty easy.
Let's see what the next argument is.
That's the kernel size no the size of the kernel which you saw in the integration lectures.
And again the answer of what kernel size we want is here right here it is for right 32 feature maps
or 32 filters of size 4 by 4.
That's what it means here.
So let's do this let's go back to Python and let's input for here and then what is going to be the next
argument.
Well let's see here all the answers are here on the several resources we have.
The next argument is going to be destroyed which again you saw is by how many cells are shifted.
The filters are 32 filters of size four by four.
And so as we've seen this trait is not given here.
But as I've told you it's usually strides equal to then next argument.
Let's have a look.
Again a sense of loaded sense of documentation.
The next argument is well you have many of them you have the padding the data format the deletion rate
the activation and more of them.
So no worries we don't have to answer all of them we are just going to keep their default values.
However we have to specify the activation function because we want to use the rectifier activation function.
And as you can see this is not the default value here.
The default value is none.
Therefore we're going to specify this in the arguments and remember in the world no rules it specifies
which activation function it uses for this first convolutional layer.
And that is a real activation function or in other words a rectifier activation function.
So here we go.
Let's implemented as for strides we have to specify the name of the argument because this is not the
next one in the list of argument.
So activation equals.
And to get the rectify activation function we need to get it from sense of flow then from the and then
Mudgal of tens of flow and from an image will tend to flow.
Well here we go we get the real function activation function.
All right.
Perfect.
So now we have everything we need but we're just going to add one final argument just to give a name
to that specific convolutional layer which is the first one with the last argument that we can use here
which is simply the name right.
And so the name for this first convolution layer Well we can call it and encoder with Anke convolution
can one the first convolutional layer of the encoder because then we'll get Also some convolutions or
inverted convolutions.
But for the decoder then no worries about the warning is only because we haven't used it yet but we're
about to use it right now because age is first convolutional layer.
It's going to become the input of the second convolutional there.
So actually what we're going to do to be efficient in order to create that second convolutional layer
is the first one and then the first very important thing is not to forget to place some of that X which
was of course the input of the first convolutional layer but the first convolutional layer only because
now the input sensor of the second convolutional layer is going to be the first one edge and we can
override h here because what only matters to us is the final outcome.
After the convolutions of Basically year we're just applying the convolutions one after the other by
putting on the new one the previous one.
And so I'm replacing the self-doubt X here by H.
And now the second thing that we need to do is check the architecture here.
What we want for the number of future maps or folders and same do we want the same size the same stride
extra.
So the answer to that question is again right here and the architecture of the original variational
are in code are made by the authors.
And as we can see the second convolutional layer has 6 for filters of size four by four.
So here we go.
We're going to implement that right away by simply replacing the 32 here by 64 and we already have the
right size of the filters.
And then let's check if we have the same activation function.
And yes it is the same it is the rectify activation function once again.
So nothing to change here and here of course we're going to replace UNC.
Can one buy on come too because this is the second convolutional there.
And here we go and there you're going to see how we're going to be so efficient at finishing the creation
of this encoder because for the next one well this time we don't even have to replace a chip because
now this new convolutional layer is going to take as input to previous convolutional layers of age here
corresponds to that age here and now.
Let's have a look at the architecture to see what number of feature maps or filters we want.
For this third convolutional layer and we want 128 filters of size four by four and we also want a rectifier
activation function.
So it's going to be very quick now.
Basically what we want to do is to replace 64 here by 128 and can to by on count three.
The third convolutional layer.
And then here we go again.
I'm going to copy this new convolutional layer and paste it here and now the fourth convolutional layer
is going to get as a tensor and puts the previous convolutional there the third one.
But this time this new convolutional layer is going to get.
Well you might guess that it's going to get the double of 128.
Indeed reglue Gamp 256 filter's size four by four.
So here we go.
Here we only have to replace 128 by 256.
Then size four by four.
And again we have a rectifier activation function to let the signal pass inside the convolutional neural
network.
All right.
And let's not forget to replace UNC comp 3 by on com 4.
And here we go.
We have our fourth convolutional layer.
And does that mean that we have everything.
Yes we do have everything.
We are ready for the next step of the creation of this variational our encoder which is to flatten the
result of all these conclusions here that happens into a one dimensional vector of two times two times
two hundred and fifty six elements and so the way we're going to do this is actually very simple with
sense of flow because you know I already did that with some other AI platforms and I actually had to
make a function here the way we can do this very easily as tensor flow allows us to do because to flatten
the result of these four convolutions Well the only thing that we have to do is get of course first
sense of flow and then from tenso flow we're going to get the reshape function.
And the trick to reshape the result of convolutions inside a one dimensional vector is simply to put
first as you can see the final answer that you got as a result of the four convolutions here which is
of course age.
So here we go H.
And then as you can see the next argument is the shape which you have to enter in square brackets inside
which you're going to input two elements.
The first one is minus one to say that you want a one dimensional vertical vector and then of course
the second argument is going to be this exact same number here two times two times.
Two hundred and fifty six.
And that's of course the number of elements you want to have in this flattened vector.
So here we go.
That's the second element here.
Two times two times 256.
And congratulations you are done with the first part of the creation of this V immortal the encoded
part is done.
So now we're going to move on to the second part which is going to be the VI Part of the V model to
simple stochastic the late and vector Z from a Gaussian distribution of mean and variance Sigma.
So let's do that in the next tutorial.
And until then enjoy AI.